Benjamin Guedj is a senior researcher in artificial intelligence based in London, and has held academic positions in Denmark, France, and the United Kingdom.

He holds a PhD in mathematics from Sorbonne Université (2013), an "Habilitation à diriger des recherches" (French qualification for professorship, 2024) and his scientific expertise lies primarily in artificial intelligence, machine learning, probability theory, and mathematical statistics.

Benjamin is a Director of Research at Inria and a Professor of Machine Learning and Foundations of Artificial Intelligence at University College London (UCL), in the Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Department of Computer Science. He is the founder and Scientific Director of the Inria London programme, an ambitious scientific partnership between Inria and UCL. He is also a Turing Fellow at the Alan Turing Institute, a Knight of the Order of the Academic Palms of the French Republic, and a former participant in the Royal Society pairing scheme, which fosters ongoing dialogue between scientists and policymakers — a dialogue that Benjamin is particularly keen to encourage between France and the United Kingdom in his role as a board member and Young Leader of the Franco-British Council. 

Benjamin conducts research in theoretical machine learning, and focuses on statistical learning theory, PAC-Bayes, computational statistics, generalisation for deep learning, among other topics. He has contributed over 70 research articles in statistics and machine learning, and over 100 presentations and keynotes in prime scientific forums. Benjamin serves as associate editor or senior area chair for leading journals and conferences in machine learning and artificial intelligence, including JMLR, TMLR, NeurIPS, ICML, and AISTATS. He has supervised eight PhD to completion, both in France and the UK. Benjamin is a co-director of the ELLIS London Unit, and has been appointed an ELLIS Fellow.

Benjamin is an elected member of both the Board of Directors and the Evaluation Committee at Inria. He is an appointed member of the HCÉRES Board and sits on the editorial board of the think tank Evidences. He is also a board member of FERN-UK, the network of French-speaking researchers and academics in the UK, and of the Franco-British Data Society. He is a former board member and Secretary General of the French Statistical Society. Benjamin also serves as a board member and Secretary of the Inria Foundation. He has served as scientific advisor to two startups in London.